all right for my favorite lower body
exercise
Squad I love that exercise because a
goblet squat when you're holding the
dumbbell up forces you to learn the
proper form of squatting and it almost
forces you to have the right position it
anchors you down and makes you do the
squat in the correct way
tie one of our up-and-coming WWE
Superstars here is gonna help us out
he's gonna grab his dumbbell and a
goblet now this forces him by keeping
the dumbbell in this position it forces
him to keep his chest up in his back
flat and it's gonna help to create
stability eventually he'll be able to
move onto a barbell press but it'll have
the form down from this they'll always
have that and continuing to do about
goblet squats even after you've learned
to do barbell squats is ideal because
this constantly keeps reinforcing that
proper form so what you're gonna do is
he's going to start with a little wider
than a shoulder-width stance and he's
gonna screw his feet into the floor and
by that what I mean is you're gonna
think about trying to turn his hip in
the socket rotating it out that forces
him to his engage his glutes which is
the biggest thing that most people don't
do second thing he's gonna do is you're
gonna start the motion in the squat by
engaging his hips first he's gonna drive
backwards with his hips and then start
to squat down he drives his knees out to
the side elbows go inside the knees
drops down into the squat keeps his back
flat his chest up and then drives back
up to the top position driving through
his glutes and his hamstring this is a
proper squat go ahead and do a set of
eight for me
you notice he starts that motion with a
hip drive keeps his back flat his chest
up drives in and when he gets to the
bottom
what he's doing is constantly thinking
about screwing his feet in and turning
those knees out to the side that's six
really working on getting in the bottom
pushing those knees out getting that
groin to open up getting that stretch
awesome great put it down for a second
shake it out we'll get a second set in
so this is the best way to learn how to
squat it really is what I'm going to
show you now is an advanced version of
that this is a one and a half goblet
squat what he's gonna do is the same
motion except now he's going to go down
when he gets to the bottom position is
going to come halfway up drop back into
the bottom position and then come back
all the way to the top so it's a
one-and-a-half rep what it does is it
really just increases the amount of time
under tension which is going to increase
the amount of work that the muscle does
you'll really feel a difference in how
hard this works so if you're training at
home and you don't have a lot of heavy
weight you're training with a dumbbell
you can increase the intensity without
having to add a bunch of weight or go by
a huge dumbbell you can just increase
that intensity by adding one and a half
to this workout go ahead and grab this
we'll do a set of twelve so each time
you go down halfway up down all the way
up that's one rep alright again same
thing screw the feet into the ground
glaze those glutes pick the hips out in
the back drop it down awesome inside
push those knees out and back up perfect
that's perfect form get those knees out
driving up to the top
perfect really see as he comes up fires
a motion with his glutes of drives his
hip forward into the motion so it's a
lot of glute and hamstring
this really takes the pressure off your
knees and it's working your quads your
hamstrings your glutes but what it does
is it works everything in such a
synergistic fashion that you really
start to lose knee pain you start to
lose low back pain because it's working
the entire unit as opposed to individual
pieces of a muscle come on two more keep
that form keep that low back flat chest
up and drive it up awesome that's the
set man those are rough again that's the
one and a half with the goblet squat
best way to learn how to squat best way
to continue to learn make sure that
you're squatting properly at all the
time thanks a lot man